This is a script i threw together while working on a paper.

THIS IS FOR MY OWN PERSONAL USE ONLY.
FEEL FREE TO USE IT, BUT DON'T EXPECT IT TO WORK WITHOUT ALOT OF TINKERING
FOR LICENCING DETAILS, FEEL FREE TO CONTACT ME.

I use it to replot parts of figures where raw data is not available.
The process is rather tedious but it allows me to compare my figures 
to others' on the map projection of my choice.
(Originial figures must be on uniform lat-lon grid)

The main part of the workflow requires the "export XY" extension for Inkscape,
as far as I know, it is only available here (two versions, I use the latest):
http://www.inkscapeforum.com/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=8826

How it is done:
1) Import the figure, which should be replotted, into Inkscape
2) Draw a straight diagonal line between two grid points with known
   lat-lon coordinates (e.g. between two grid intersections)
3) SAVE!!! (For complicated figures, which is often the case with imported
   graphs, Export XY might crash after completion)
4) Select the line object and do: extensions>Export>Export XY
5) A window will open giving the absolute coordinates of each node
6) Copy the coordinates and paste into a text file (e.g. xy_01.txt)
   Now we know the both the SVG-coordinates and their corresponding lon-lat,
   we will use this to convert the svg-coordinates of the traced figure to
   lon-lat.
7) Close the dialog, Inkscape might now crash (hope you saved!)
8) (Re-open Inkscape) begin the tedious work of tracing the figure/contour/whatever
9) Select the line-object, do: extensions>Export>Export XY
11) Copy coordinates to a new text file, (e.g. xyref_01.txt)
12) Close dialog+crash again
13) Repeat steps 1-12 for any number of figures over the same geographical area
    (lower left & upper right corners must be the same for all figures)

13) Time for plot_patches.ncl, it needs to be modified a bit first
14) Change the lists of file and header names appropriately
15) Set the path to the header file (oh right, I use a WRF-output file in netCDF format
    to set up the domain...)
16) Modify xmin_in_lon,ymin_in_lat,... to match the nodes of the line in step2
17) Set the map projection
18) Save and exit, run the ncl script and you should get a very simple plot.


15) Use some magic trick to convert this to coordinates and plot a shape on the same map projection as is used in my other plots!


--
Adam Dingwell 2014
